README.md, before:

SQLDelight
==========

SQLDelight generates Java models from your SQL `CREATE TABLE` statements. These models give you a
typesafe API to read & write the rows of your tables. It helps you to keep your SQL statements
together, organized, and easy to access from Java.

Example
-------

To use SQLDelight, put your SQL statements in a `.sq` file, like
`src/main/sqldelight/com/example/HockeyPlayer.sq`. Typically the first statement creates a table.

```sql
CREATE TABLE hockey_player (
  _id INTEGER NOT NULL PRIMARY KEY AUTOINCREMENT,
  number INTEGER NOT NULL,
  name TEXT NOT NULL
);

-- Further SQL statements are proceeded by an identifier. This will be used to name the constant
-- in the generated Java code.
select_by_name:
SELECT *
FROM hockey_player
WHERE name = ?;
```

From this SQLDelight will generate a `HockeyPlayerModel` Java interface with nested classes for reading
(the Mapper) and writing (the Marshal) the table.

```java
package com.example;

import android.content.ContentValues;
import android.database.Cursor;
import android.support.annotation.NonNull;
import com.squareup.sqldelight.RowMapper;
import java.lang.Override;
import java.lang.String;

public interface HockeyPlayerModel {
  String TABLE_NAME = "hockey_player";

  String _ID = "_id";

  String NUMBER = "number";

  String NAME = "name";

  String CREATE_TABLE = ""
      + "CREATE TABLE hockey_player (\n"
      + "  _id INTEGER NOT NULL PRIMARY KEY AUTOINCREMENT,\n"
      + "  number INTEGER NOT NULL,\n"
      + "  name TEXT NOT NULL\n"
      + ")";

  String SELECT_BY_NAME = ""
      + "SELECT *\n"
      + "FROM hockey_player\n"
      + "WHERE name = ?";

  long _id();

  long number();

  @NonNull
  String name();

  interface Creator<T extends HockeyPlayerModel> {
    T create(long _id, long number, String name);
  }

  final class Mapper<T extends HockeyPlayerModel> implements RowMapper<T> {
    private final Factory<T> hockeyPlayerModelFactory;

    public Mapper(Factory<T> hockeyPlayerModelFactory) {
      this.hockeyPlayerModelFactory = hockeyPlayerModelFactory;
    }

    @Override
    public T map(@NonNull Cursor cursor) {
      return hockeyPlayerModelFactory.creator.create(
          cursor.getLong(0),
          cursor.getLong(1),
          cursor.getString(2)
      );
    }
  }

  class Marshal<T extends Marshal<T>> {
    protected ContentValues contentValues = new ContentValues();

    Marshal() {
    }

    Marshal(HockeyPlayerModel copy) {
      this._id(copy._id());
      this.number(copy.number());
      this.name(copy.name());
    }

    public final ContentValues asContentValues() {
      return contentValues;
    }

    public T _id(long _id) {
      contentValues.put(_ID, _id);
      return (T) this;
    }

    public T number(long number) {
      contentValues.put(NUMBER, number);
      return (T) this;
    }

    public T name(String name) {
      contentValues.put(NAME, name);
      return (T) this;
    }
  }

  final class Factory<T extends HockeyPlayerModel> {
    public final Creator<T> creator;

    public Factory(Creator<T> creator) {
      this.creator = creator;
    }

    public Mapper<T> select_by_nameMapper() {
      return new Mapper<T>(this);
    }

    public Marshal marshal() {
      return new Marshal();
    }

    public Marshal marshal(HockeyPlayerModel copy) {
      return new Marshal(copy);
    }
  }
}
```

AutoValue
---------

Using Google's [AutoValue](https://github.com/google/auto/tree/master/value) you can minimally
make implementations of the model/marshal/mapper:

```java
@AutoValue
public abstract class HockeyPlayer implements HockeyPlayerModel {
  public static final Factory<HockeyPlayer> FACTORY = new Factory<>(new Creator<HockeyPlayer>() {
    @Override public HockeyPlayer create(long _id, long number, String name) {
      return new AutoValue_HockeyPlayer(_id, age, number, gender);
    }
  });

  public static final RowMapper<HockeyPlayer> MAPPER = FACTORY.select_by_nameMapper();
}
```

If you are also using [Retrolambda](https://github.com/orfjackal/retrolambda/) the anonymous class
can be replaced by a method reference:

```java
@AutoValue
public abstract class HockeyPlayer implements HockeyPlayerModel {
  public static final Factory<HockeyPlayer> FACTORY = new Factory<>(AutoValue_HockeyPlayer::new);

  public static final RowMapper<HockeyPlayer> MAPPER = FACTORY.select_by_nameMapper();
}
```

Consuming Code
--------------

Use the generated constants to reference table names and SQL statements.

```java
public void insert(SqliteDatabase db, long _id, long number, String name) {
  db.insert(HockeyPlayer.TABLE_NAME, null, HockeyPlayer.FACTORY.marshal()
    ._id(_id)
    .number(number)
    .name(name)
    .asContentValues());
}

public List<HockeyPlayer> alecs(SQLiteDatabase db) {
  List<HockeyPlayer> result = new ArrayList<>();
  try (Cursor cursor = db.rawQuery(HockeyPlayer.SELECT_BY_NAME, new String[] { "Alec" })) {
    while (cursor.moveToNext()) {
      result.add(HockeyPlayer.MAPPER.map(cursor));
    }
  }
  return result;
}
```

Projections
-----------

Each select statement will have an interface and mapper generated for it, as well as a method
on the factory to create a new instance of the mapper.

```sql
player_names:
SELECT name
FROM hockey_player;
```

Selects that only return a single value do not require a custom type to be mapped. The generated
file will only contain a new method on the factory.

```java
interface HockeyPlayerModel {

  ...

  final class Factory<T extends HockeyPlayerModel> {

    ...

    public RowMapper<String> player_namesMapper();
  }
}
```

Referencing the mapper is done the same as when you select an entire table.

```java
@AutoValue
public abstract class HockeyPlayer implements HockeyPlayerModel {
  public static final Factory<HockeyPlayer> FACTORY = new Factory<>(AutoValue_HockeyPlayer::new);

  public static final RowMapper<String> PLAYER_NAMES_MAPPER = FACTORY.player_namesMapper():

  public List<String> playerNames(SQLiteDatabase db) {
    List<String> names = new ArrayList<>();
    try (Cursor cursor = db.rawQuery(PLAYER_NAMES)) {
      while (cursor.moveToNext()) {
        names.add(PLAYER_NAMES_MAPPER.map(cursor));
      }
    }
    return names;
  }
}
```

Selects that return multiple result columns generate a custom model, mapper, and factory method
for the query.

```sql
names_for_number:
SELECT number, group_concat(name)
FROM hockey_player
GROUP BY number;
```

generates:
```java
interface HockeyPlayerModel {

  ...

  interface Names_for_numberModel {
    long number();

    String group_concat_name();
  }

  interface Names_for_numberCreator<T extends Names_for_numberModel> {
    T create(long number, String group_concat_name);
  }

  final class Names_for_numberMapper<T extends Names_for_numberModel> implements RowMapper<T> {
    ...
  }

  final class Factory<T extends HockeyPlayerModel> {

    ...

    public <R extends Names_for_numberModel> Names_for_numberMapper<R> names_for_numberMapper(
      Names_for_numberCreator<R> creator
    ) {
      return new Names_for_numberMapper<R>(creator);
    }
  }
}
```

Referencing the mapper requires an implementation of the result set type.

```java
@AutoValue
public abstract class HockeyPlayer implements HockeyPlayerModel {
  public static final Factory<HockeyPlayer> FACTORY = new Factory<>(AutoValue_HockeyPlayer::new);

  public static final RowMapper<NamesForNumber> NAMES_FOR_NUMBER_MAPPER =
      FACTORY.names_for_numberMapper(AutoValue_HockeyPlayer_NamesForNumber::new);

  public Map<Integer, String[]> namesForNumber(SQLiteDatabase db) {
    Map<Integer, String[]> namesForNumberMap = new LinkedHashMap<>();
    try (Cursor cursor = db.rawQuery(NAMES_FOR_NUMBER)) {
      while (cursor.moveToNext()) {
        NamesForNumber namesForNumber = NAMES_FOR_NUMBER_MAPPER.map(cursor);
        namesForNumberMap.put(namesForNumber.number(), namesForNumber.names());
      }
    }
    return namesForNumberMap;
  }

  @AutoValue
  public abstract class NamesForNumber implements Names_for_numberModel<NamesForNumber> {
    public String[] names() {
      return group_concat_names().split(",");
    }
  }
}
```

Types
-----

SQLDelight column definition are identical to regular SQLite column definitions but support an extra column constraint
which specifies the java type of the column in the generated interface. SQLDelight natively supports the same types that 
`Cursor` and `ContentValues` expect:

```sql
CREATE TABLE some_types {
  some_long INTEGER,           -- Stored as INTEGER in db, retrieved as Long
  some_double REAL,            -- Stored as REAL in db, retrieved as Double
  some_string TEXT,            -- Stored as TEXT in db, retrieved as String
  some_blob BLOB,              -- Stored as BLOB in db, retrieved as byte[]
  some_int INTEGER AS Integer, -- Stored as INTEGER in db, retrieved as Integer
  some_short INTEGER AS Short, -- Stored as INTEGER in db, retrieved as Short
  some_float REAL AS Float     -- Stored as REAL in db, retrieved as Float
}
```

Booleans
--------

SQLDelight supports boolean columns and stores them in the db as ints. Since they are implemented
as ints they can be given int column constraints:

```sql
CREATE TABLE hockey_player (
  injured INTEGER AS Boolean DEFAULT 0
)
```

Custom Classes
--------------

If you'd like to retrieve columns as custom types you can specify the java type as a sqlite string:

```sql
import java.util.Calendar;

CREATE TABLE hockey_player (
  birth_date INTEGER AS Calendar NOT NULL
)
```

However, creating a Marshal or Factory will require you to provide a `ColumnAdapter` which knows how
to map a `Cursor` to your type and marshal your type into a `ContentValues`:

```java
public class HockeyPlayer implements HockeyPlayerModel {
  private static final ColumnAdapter<Calendar> CALENDAR_ADAPTER = new ColumnAdapter<>() {
    @Override public Calendar map(Cursor cursor, int columnIndex) {
      Calendar calendar = Calendar.getInstance();
      calendar.setTimeInMillis(cursor.getLong(columnIndex));
      return calendar;
    }

    @Override public void marshal(ContentValues contentValues, String key, Calendar value) {
      contentValues.put(key, value.getTimeInMillis());
    }
  }

  public static final Factory<HockeyPlayer> FACTORY = new Factory<>(new Creator<>() { },
      CALENDAR_ADAPTER);
}
```

Enums
-----

As a convenience the SQLDelight runtime includes a `ColumnAdapter` for storing an enum as TEXT.

```sql
import com.example.hockey.HockeyPlayer;

CREATE TABLE hockey_player (
  position TEXT AS HockeyPlayer.Position
)
```

```java
public class HockeyPlayer implements HockeyPlayerModel {
  public enum Position {
    CENTER, LEFT_WING, RIGHT_WING, DEFENSE, GOALIE
  }
  
  private static final ColumnAdapter<Position> POSITION_ADAPTER = EnumColumnAdapter.create(Position.class);
  
  public static final Factory<HockeyPlayer> FACTORY = new Factory<>(new Creator<>() { },
      POSITION_ADAPTER);
}
```

SQL Statement Arguments
-----------------------

SQL queries can also contain arguments the same way `SqliteDatabase` does:

```sql
select_by_position:
SELECT *
FROM hockey_player
WHERE position = ?;
```

```java
Cursor centers = db.rawQuery(HockeyPlayer.SELECT_BY_POSITION, new String[] { Center.name() });
```

Views
-----

Views receive the same treatment in generated code as tables with their own model interface.

```sql
names_view:
CREATE VIEW names AS
SELECT substr(name, 0, instr(name, ' ')) AS first_name,
       substr(name, instr(name, ' ') + 1) AS last_name,
       _id
FROM hockey_player;

select_names:
SELECT *
FROM names;
```

generates:
```java
interface HockeyPlayerModel {

  ...

  interface NamesModel {
    String first_name();

    String last_name();

    long _id();
  }

  interface NamesCreator<T extends NamesModel> {
    T create(String first_name, String last_name, long _id);
  }

  final class NamesMapper<T extends NamesModel> implements RowMapper<T> {
    ...
  }

  final class Factory<T extends HockeyPlayerModel> {

    ...

    public <R extends NamesModel> NamesMapper<R> select_namesMapper(NamesCreator<R> creator) {
      return new NamesMapper<R>(creator);
    }
  }
}
```

Referencing the mapper requires an implementation of the view model.

```java
@AutoValue
public abstract class HockeyPlayer implements HockeyPlayerModel {
  public static final Factory<HockeyPlayer> FACTORY = new Factory<>(AutoValue_HockeyPlayer::new);

  public static final RowMapper<NamesForNumber> SELECT_NAMES_MAPPER =
      FACTORY.select_namesMapper(AutoValue_HockeyPlayer_Names::new);

  public List<Names> names(SQLiteDatabase) {
    List<Names> names = new ArrayList<>();
    try (Cursor cursor = db.rawQuery(SELECT_NAMES)) {
      while (cursor.moveToNext()) {
        names.add(SELECT_NAMES_MAPPER.map(cursor));
      }
    }
    return names;
  }

  @AutoValue
  public abstract class Names implements NamesModel { }
}
```

Join Projections
----------------

Selecting from multiple tables via joins also requires an implementation class.

```sql
select_all_info:
SELECT *
FROM hockey_player
JOIN names USING (_id);
```

generates:
```java
interface HockeyPlayerModel {

  ...

  interface Select_all_infoModel<T1 extends HockeyPlayerModel, V4 extends NamesModel> {
    T1 hockey_player();

    V4 names();
  }

  interface Select_all_infoCreator<T1 extends HockeyPlayerModel, V4 extends NamesModel, T extends Select_all_infoModel<T1, V4>> {
    T create(T1 hockey_player, V4 names);
  }

  final class Select_all_infoMapper<T1 extends HockeyPlayerModel, V4 extends NamesModel, T extends Select_all_infoModel<T1, V4>> implements RowMapper<T> {
    ...
  }

  final class Factory<T extends HockeyPlayerModel> {
    public <V4 extends NamesModel, R extends Select_all_infoModel<T, V4>> Select_all_infoMapper<T, V4, R> select_all_infoMapper(Select_all_infoCreator<T, V4, R> creator, NamesCreator<V4> namesCreator) {
      return new Select_all_infoMapper<T, V4, R>(creator, this, namesCreator);
    }
  }
}
```

implementation:
```java
@AutoValue
public abstract class HockeyPlayer implements HockeyPlayerModel {
  public static final Factory<HockeyPlayer> FACTORY = new Factory<>(AutoValue_HockeyPlayer::new);

  public static final RowMapper<AllInfo> SELECT_ALL_INFO_MAPPER =
      FACTORY.select_all_infoMapper(AutoValue_HockeyPlayer_AllInfo::new,
        AutoValue_HockeyPlayer_Names::new);

  public List<AllInfo> allInfo(SQLiteDatabase db) {
    List<AllInfo> allInfoList = new ArrayList<>();
    try (Cursor cursor = db.rawQuery(SELECT_ALL_INFO)) {
      while (cursor.moveToNext()) {
        allInfoList.add(SELECT_ALL_INFO_MAPPER.map(cursor));
      }
    }
    return allInfoList;
  }

  @AutoValue
  public abstract class Names implements NamesModel { }

  @AutoValue
  public abstract class AllInfo implements Select_all_infoModel<HockeyPlayer, Names> { }
}
```


Intellij Plugin
---------------

The Intellij plugin provides language-level features for `.sq` files, including:
 - Syntax highlighting
 - Refactoring/Find usages
 - Code autocompletion
 - Generate `Model` files after edits

Download
--------

For the Gradle plugin:

```groovy
buildscript {
  repositories {
    mavenCentral()
  }
  dependencies {
    classpath 'com.squareup.sqldelight:gradle-plugin:0.4.2'
  }
}

apply plugin: 'com.squareup.sqldelight'
```

The Intellij plugin can be installed from Android Studio by navigating<br>
Android Studio -> Preferences -> Plugins -> Browse repositories -> Search for SQLDelight

Snapshots of the development version (including the IDE plugin zip) are available in
[Sonatype's `snapshots` repository](https://oss.sonatype.org/content/repositories/snapshots/).


License
=======

    Copyright 2016 Square, Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

       http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

Commit message:

Make IDE errors deep link to the error

README.md, after:

SQLDelight
==========

SQLDelight generates Java models from your SQL `CREATE TABLE` statements. These models give you a
typesafe API to read & write the rows of your tables. It helps you to keep your SQL statements
together, organized, and easy to access from Java.

Example
-------

To use SQLDelight, put your SQL statements in a `.sq` file, like
`src/main/sqldelight/com/example/HockeyPlayer.sq`. Typically the first statement creates a table.

```sql
CREATE TABLE hockey_player (
  _id INTEGER NOT NULL PRIMARY KEY AUTOINCREMENT,
  number INTEGER NOT NULL,
  name TEXT NOT NULL
);

-- Further SQL statements are proceeded by an identifier. This will be used to name the constant
-- in the generated Java code.
select_by_name:
SELECT *
FROM hockey_player
WHERE name = ?;
```

From this SQLDelight will generate a `HockeyPlayerModel` Java interface with nested classes for reading
(the Mapper) and writing (the Marshal) the table.

```java
package com.example;

import android.content.ContentValues;
import android.database.Cursor;
import android.support.annotation.NonNull;
import com.squareup.sqldelight.RowMapper;
import java.lang.Override;
import java.lang.String;

public interface HockeyPlayerModel {
  String TABLE_NAME = "hockey_player";

  String _ID = "_id";

  String NUMBER = "number";

  String NAME = "name";

  String CREATE_TABLE = ""
      + "CREATE TABLE hockey_player (\n"
      + "  _id INTEGER NOT NULL PRIMARY KEY AUTOINCREMENT,\n"
      + "  number INTEGER NOT NULL,\n"
      + "  name TEXT NOT NULL\n"
      + ")";

  String SELECT_BY_NAME = ""
      + "SELECT *\n"
      + "FROM hockey_player\n"
      + "WHERE name = ?";

  long _id();

  long number();

  @NonNull
  String name();

  interface Creator<T extends HockeyPlayerModel> {
    T create(long _id, long number, String name);
  }

  final class Mapper<T extends HockeyPlayerModel> implements RowMapper<T> {
    private final Factory<T> hockeyPlayerModelFactory;

    public Mapper(Factory<T> hockeyPlayerModelFactory) {
      this.hockeyPlayerModelFactory = hockeyPlayerModelFactory;
    }

    @Override
    public T map(@NonNull Cursor cursor) {
      return hockeyPlayerModelFactory.creator.create(
          cursor.getLong(0),
          cursor.getLong(1),
          cursor.getString(2)
      );
    }
  }

  class Marshal<T extends Marshal<T>> {
    protected ContentValues contentValues = new ContentValues();

    Marshal() {
    }

    Marshal(HockeyPlayerModel copy) {
      this._id(copy._id());
      this.number(copy.number());
      this.name(copy.name());
    }

    public final ContentValues asContentValues() {
      return contentValues;
    }

    public T _id(long _id) {
      contentValues.put(_ID, _id);
      return (T) this;
    }

    public T number(long number) {
      contentValues.put(NUMBER, number);
      return (T) this;
    }

    public T name(String name) {
      contentValues.put(NAME, name);
      return (T) this;
    }
  }

  final class Factory<T extends HockeyPlayerModel> {
    public final Creator<T> creator;

    public Factory(Creator<T> creator) {
      this.creator = creator;
    }

    public Mapper<T> select_by_nameMapper() {
      return new Mapper<T>(this);
    }

    public Marshal marshal() {
      return new Marshal();
    }

    public Marshal marshal(HockeyPlayerModel copy) {
      return new Marshal(copy);
    }
  }
}
```

AutoValue
---------

Using Google's [AutoValue](https://github.com/google/auto/tree/master/value) you can minimally
make implementations of the model/marshal/mapper:

```java
@AutoValue
public abstract class HockeyPlayer implements HockeyPlayerModel {
  public static final Factory<HockeyPlayer> FACTORY = new Factory<>(new Creator<HockeyPlayer>() {
    @Override public HockeyPlayer create(long _id, long number, String name) {
      return new AutoValue_HockeyPlayer(_id, age, number, gender);
    }
  });

  public static final RowMapper<HockeyPlayer> MAPPER = FACTORY.select_by_nameMapper();
}
```

If you are also using [Retrolambda](https://github.com/orfjackal/retrolambda/) the anonymous class
can be replaced by a method reference:

```java
@AutoValue
public abstract class HockeyPlayer implements HockeyPlayerModel {
  public static final Factory<HockeyPlayer> FACTORY = new Factory<>(AutoValue_HockeyPlayer::new);

  public static final RowMapper<HockeyPlayer> MAPPER = FACTORY.select_by_nameMapper();
}
```

Consuming Code
--------------

Use the generated constants to reference table names and SQL statements.

```java
public void insert(SqliteDatabase db, long _id, long number, String name) {
  db.insert(HockeyPlayer.TABLE_NAME, null, HockeyPlayer.FACTORY.marshal()
    ._id(_id)
    .number(number)
    .name(name)
    .asContentValues());
}

public List<HockeyPlayer> alecs(SQLiteDatabase db) {
  List<HockeyPlayer> result = new ArrayList<>();
  try (Cursor cursor = db.rawQuery(HockeyPlayer.SELECT_BY_NAME, new String[] { "Alec" })) {
    while (cursor.moveToNext()) {
      result.add(HockeyPlayer.MAPPER.map(cursor));
    }
  }
  return result;
}
```

Projections
-----------

Each select statement will have an interface and mapper generated for it, as well as a method
on the factory to create a new instance of the mapper.

```sql
player_names:
SELECT name
FROM hockey_player;
```

Selects that only return a single value do not require a custom type to be mapped. The generated
file will only contain a new method on the factory.

```java
interface HockeyPlayerModel {

  ...

  final class Factory<T extends HockeyPlayerModel> {

    ...

    public RowMapper<String> player_namesMapper();
  }
}
```

Referencing the mapper is done the same as when you select an entire table.

```java
@AutoValue
public abstract class HockeyPlayer implements HockeyPlayerModel {
  public static final Factory<HockeyPlayer> FACTORY = new Factory<>(AutoValue_HockeyPlayer::new);

  public static final RowMapper<String> PLAYER_NAMES_MAPPER = FACTORY.player_namesMapper():

  public List<String> playerNames(SQLiteDatabase db) {
    List<String> names = new ArrayList<>();
    try (Cursor cursor = db.rawQuery(PLAYER_NAMES)) {
      while (cursor.moveToNext()) {
        names.add(PLAYER_NAMES_MAPPER.map(cursor));
      }
    }
    return names;
  }
}
```

Selects that return multiple result columns generate a custom model, mapper, and factory method
for the query.

```sql
names_for_number:
SELECT number, group_concat(name)
FROM hockey_player
GROUP BY number;
```

generates:
```java
interface HockeyPlayerModel {

  ...

  interface Names_for_numberModel {
    long number();

    String group_concat_name();
  }

  interface Names_for_numberCreator<T extends Names_for_numberModel> {
    T create(long number, String group_concat_name);
  }

  final class Names_for_numberMapper<T extends Names_for_numberModel> implements RowMapper<T> {
    ...
  }

  final class Factory<T extends HockeyPlayerModel> {

    ...

    public <R extends Names_for_numberModel> Names_for_numberMapper<R> names_for_numberMapper(
      Names_for_numberCreator<R> creator
    ) {
      return new Names_for_numberMapper<R>(creator);
    }
  }
}
```

Referencing the mapper requires an implementation of the result set type.

```java
@AutoValue
public abstract class HockeyPlayer implements HockeyPlayerModel {
  public static final Factory<HockeyPlayer> FACTORY = new Factory<>(AutoValue_HockeyPlayer::new);

  public static final RowMapper<NamesForNumber> NAMES_FOR_NUMBER_MAPPER =
      FACTORY.names_for_numberMapper(AutoValue_HockeyPlayer_NamesForNumber::new);

  public Map<Integer, String[]> namesForNumber(SQLiteDatabase db) {
    Map<Integer, String[]> namesForNumberMap = new LinkedHashMap<>();
    try (Cursor cursor = db.rawQuery(NAMES_FOR_NUMBER)) {
      while (cursor.moveToNext()) {
        NamesForNumber namesForNumber = NAMES_FOR_NUMBER_MAPPER.map(cursor);
        namesForNumberMap.put(namesForNumber.number(), namesForNumber.names());
      }
    }
    return namesForNumberMap;
  }

  @AutoValue
  public abstract class NamesForNumber implements Names_for_numberModel<NamesForNumber> {
    public String[] names() {
      return group_concat_names().split(",");
    }
  }
}
```

Types
-----

SQLDelight column definition are identical to regular SQLite column definitions but support an extra column constraint
which specifies the java type of the column in the generated interface. SQLDelight natively supports the same types that 
`Cursor` and `ContentValues` expect:

```sql
CREATE TABLE some_types {
  some_long INTEGER,           -- Stored as INTEGER in db, retrieved as Long
  some_double REAL,            -- Stored as REAL in db, retrieved as Double
  some_string TEXT,            -- Stored as TEXT in db, retrieved as String
  some_blob BLOB,              -- Stored as BLOB in db, retrieved as byte[]
  some_int INTEGER AS Integer, -- Stored as INTEGER in db, retrieved as Integer
  some_short INTEGER AS Short, -- Stored as INTEGER in db, retrieved as Short
  some_float REAL AS Float     -- Stored as REAL in db, retrieved as Float
}
```

Booleans
--------

SQLDelight supports boolean columns and stores them in the db as ints. Since they are implemented
as ints they can be given int column constraints:

```sql
CREATE TABLE hockey_player (
  injured INTEGER AS Boolean DEFAULT 0
)
```

Custom Classes
--------------

If you'd like to retrieve columns as custom types you can specify the java type as a sqlite string:

```sql
import java.util.Calendar;

CREATE TABLE hockey_player (
  birth_date INTEGER AS Calendar NOT NULL
)
```

However, creating a Marshal or Factory will require you to provide a `ColumnAdapter` which knows how
to map a `Cursor` to your type and marshal your type into a `ContentValues`:

```java
public class HockeyPlayer implements HockeyPlayerModel {
  private static final ColumnAdapter<Calendar> CALENDAR_ADAPTER = new ColumnAdapter<>() {
    @Override public Calendar map(Cursor cursor, int columnIndex) {
      Calendar calendar = Calendar.getInstance();
      calendar.setTimeInMillis(cursor.getLong(columnIndex));
      return calendar;
    }

    @Override public void marshal(ContentValues contentValues, String key, Calendar value) {
      contentValues.put(key, value.getTimeInMillis());
    }
  }

  public static final Factory<HockeyPlayer> FACTORY = new Factory<>(new Creator<>() { },
      CALENDAR_ADAPTER);
}
```

Enums
-----

As a convenience the SQLDelight runtime includes a `ColumnAdapter` for storing an enum as TEXT.

```sql
import com.example.hockey.HockeyPlayer;

CREATE TABLE hockey_player (
  position TEXT AS HockeyPlayer.Position
)
```

```java
public class HockeyPlayer implements HockeyPlayerModel {
  public enum Position {
    CENTER, LEFT_WING, RIGHT_WING, DEFENSE, GOALIE
  }
  
  private static final ColumnAdapter<Position> POSITION_ADAPTER = EnumColumnAdapter.create(Position.class);
  
  public static final Factory<HockeyPlayer> FACTORY = new Factory<>(new Creator<>() { },
      POSITION_ADAPTER);
}
```

SQL Statement Arguments
-----------------------

SQL queries can also contain arguments the same way `SqliteDatabase` does:

```sql
select_by_position:
SELECT *
FROM hockey_player
WHERE position = ?;
```

```java
Cursor centers = db.rawQuery(HockeyPlayer.SELECT_BY_POSITION, new String[] { Center.name() });
```

Views
-----

Views receive the same treatment in generated code as tables with their own model interface.

```sql
names_view:
CREATE VIEW names AS
SELECT substr(name, 0, instr(name, ' ')) AS first_name,
       substr(name, instr(name, ' ') + 1) AS last_name,
       _id
FROM hockey_player;

select_names:
SELECT *
FROM names;
```

generates:
```java
interface HockeyPlayerModel {

  ...

  interface NamesModel {
    String first_name();

    String last_name();

    long _id();
  }

  interface NamesCreator<T extends NamesModel> {
    T create(String first_name, String last_name, long _id);
  }

  final class NamesMapper<T extends NamesModel> implements RowMapper<T> {
    ...
  }

  final class Factory<T extends HockeyPlayerModel> {

    ...

    public <R extends NamesModel> NamesMapper<R> select_namesMapper(NamesCreator<R> creator) {
      return new NamesMapper<R>(creator);
    }
  }
}
```

Referencing the mapper requires an implementation of the view model.

```java
@AutoValue
public abstract class HockeyPlayer implements HockeyPlayerModel {
  public static final Factory<HockeyPlayer> FACTORY = new Factory<>(AutoValue_HockeyPlayer::new);

  public static final RowMapper<NamesForNumber> SELECT_NAMES_MAPPER =
      FACTORY.select_namesMapper(AutoValue_HockeyPlayer_Names::new);

  public List<Names> names(SQLiteDatabase) {
    List<Names> names = new ArrayList<>();
    try (Cursor cursor = db.rawQuery(SELECT_NAMES)) {
      while (cursor.moveToNext()) {
        names.add(SELECT_NAMES_MAPPER.map(cursor));
      }
    }
    return names;
  }

  @AutoValue
  public abstract class Names implements NamesModel { }
}
```

Join Projections
----------------

Selecting from multiple tables via joins also requires an implementation class.

```sql
select_all_info:
SELECT *
FROM hockey_player
JOIN names USING (_id);
```

generates:
```java
interface HockeyPlayerModel {

  ...

  interface Select_all_infoModel<T1 extends HockeyPlayerModel, V4 extends NamesModel> {
    T1 hockey_player();

    V4 names();
  }

  interface Select_all_infoCreator<T1 extends HockeyPlayerModel, V4 extends NamesModel, T extends Select_all_infoModel<T1, V4>> {
    T create(T1 hockey_player, V4 names);
  }

  final class Select_all_infoMapper<T1 extends HockeyPlayerModel, V4 extends NamesModel, T extends Select_all_infoModel<T1, V4>> implements RowMapper<T> {
    ...
  }

  final class Factory<T extends HockeyPlayerModel> {
    public <V4 extends NamesModel, R extends Select_all_infoModel<T, V4>> Select_all_infoMapper<T, V4, R> select_all_infoMapper(Select_all_infoCreator<T, V4, R> creator, NamesCreator<V4> namesCreator) {
      return new Select_all_infoMapper<T, V4, R>(creator, this, namesCreator);
    }
  }
}
```

implementation:
```java
@AutoValue
public abstract class HockeyPlayer implements HockeyPlayerModel {
  public static final Factory<HockeyPlayer> FACTORY = new Factory<>(AutoValue_HockeyPlayer::new);

  public static final RowMapper<AllInfo> SELECT_ALL_INFO_MAPPER =
      FACTORY.select_all_infoMapper(AutoValue_HockeyPlayer_AllInfo::new,
        AutoValue_HockeyPlayer_Names::new);

  public List<AllInfo> allInfo(SQLiteDatabase db) {
    List<AllInfo> allInfoList = new ArrayList<>();
    try (Cursor cursor = db.rawQuery(SELECT_ALL_INFO)) {
      while (cursor.moveToNext()) {
        allInfoList.add(SELECT_ALL_INFO_MAPPER.map(cursor));
      }
    }
    return allInfoList;
  }

  @AutoValue
  public abstract class Names implements NamesModel { }

  @AutoValue
  public abstract class AllInfo implements Select_all_infoModel<HockeyPlayer, Names> { }
}
```


Intellij Plugin
---------------

The Intellij plugin provides language-level features for `.sq` files, including:
 - Syntax highlighting
 - Refactoring/Find usages
 - Code autocompletion
 - Generate `Model` files after edits
 - Right click to copy as valid SQLite
 - Compiler errors in IDE click through to file

Download
--------

For the Gradle plugin:

```groovy
buildscript {
  repositories {
    mavenCentral()
  }
  dependencies {
    classpath 'com.squareup.sqldelight:gradle-plugin:0.4.2'
  }
}

apply plugin: 'com.squareup.sqldelight'
```

The Intellij plugin can be installed from Android Studio by navigating<br>
Android Studio -> Preferences -> Plugins -> Browse repositories -> Search for SQLDelight

Snapshots of the development version (including the IDE plugin zip) are available in
[Sonatype's `snapshots` repository](https://oss.sonatype.org/content/repositories/snapshots/).


License
=======

    Copyright 2016 Square, Inc.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

       http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.
