docs/native_sqlite/index.md, before:

# Getting started on Kotlin Native with SQLDelight

{% include 'common/index_gradle_database.md' %}

{% include 'common/index_schema.md' %}

```groovy
kotlin {
  // or sourceSets.iosMain, sourceSets.windowsMain, etc.
  sourceSets.nativeMain.dependencies {
    implementation "com.squareup.sqldelight:native-driver:{{ versions.sqldelight }}"
  }
}
```
```kotlin
val driver: SqlDriver = NativeSqliteDriver(Database.Schema, "test.db")
```

{% include 'common/index_queries.md' %}

## Connection Pool

Databases running in WAL mode (the default) can have multiple connections in a pool. To enable
the conneciton pool, initializes the driver with the `maxConcurrentConnections`:

```kotlin
val driver: SqlDriver = NativeSqliteDriver(Database.Schema, "test.db", maxConcurrentConnections = 4)
```

This will enable multiple concurrent connections, which will support reading while there is a write
transaction. It will also support multiple reading threads, and read transactions. However, this is an advanced feature, and 
should be enabled only if necessary. Multiple transactions that overlap and both read and write 
can cause data integrity issues and will throw an exception.

*It is highly recommended to do all writes in one connection*. You can safely read from other connections 
while the other is writing. Because it is possible to throw an exception if multiple connections have overlapping
write transactions, you should write from one thread, or catch and retry your transaction.

The default is a single connection, and this is recommended in pretty much all cases, unless concurrent
read performance is critical.

Commit message:

Added reader pool. Update tests and docs.

docs/native_sqlite/index.md, after:

# Getting started on Kotlin Native with SQLDelight

{% include 'common/index_gradle_database.md' %}

{% include 'common/index_schema.md' %}

```groovy
kotlin {
  // or sourceSets.iosMain, sourceSets.windowsMain, etc.
  sourceSets.nativeMain.dependencies {
    implementation "com.squareup.sqldelight:native-driver:{{ versions.sqldelight }}"
  }
}
```
```kotlin
val driver: SqlDriver = NativeSqliteDriver(Database.Schema, "test.db")
```

{% include 'common/index_queries.md' %}

## Connection Pools

Disk databases can (optionally) have multiple reader connections, and WAL databases can also (optionally) have 
multiple write/transaction connections. These are advanced configuration features that most users will not need or
benefit from, but they are available in performance-critical situations.

To configure each pool, pass parameters to the various constructors of `NativeSqliteDriver`:

```kotlin
val driver: SqlDriver = NativeSqliteDriver(Database.Schema, "test.db", maxReaderConnections = 4, maxTransactionConnections = 2)
```

Reader connections are only used to run queries outside of a transaction. Any write calls, and anything in a transaction, 
uses a connection from the transaction pool.

Some notes. In almost all cases, you should avoid `maxTransactionConnections` greater than 1. The database cannot physically
have more than one connection writing at a time, but it definitely can run into potential concurrency issues that can throw
exceptions unexpectedly. Specifically, if you have transactions that overlap, which can happen if you have read statements
early in the transaction, you can get exceptions. It is rare that you'd need this, so basically never change that param
unless you know exactly what it's doing.

However, if you want read transactions, you can have multiple connections in the transaction pool, but you'll want to 
make sure your write transactions are serialized.
